' -*-nroff-*-
.ds V 1.0
.ds E " \-\- 
.if t .ds E \(em
.de OP
.BR "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de OA
.IR "\fB\\$1\& \|\fI\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de OY
.BI "\\$1\fR=" "\\$2\fR, " "\\$3\& " "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de OL
.BI "\\$1\fR=" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de Sp
.if n .sp
.if t .sp 0.4
..
.TH MMPFB 1 "16 September 1998" "Version \*V"
.SH NAME
mmpfb \- creates single-master fonts from multiple master fonts
'
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mmpfb
\%[options]
\%[font file]
'
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mmpfb
creates a normal, single-master PostScript font from a multiple master font
by interpolation. You pass it a PFB or PFA font and options specifying the
design point you want; it writes the resulting PFB or PFA font to standard
output.
.PP
Font files
.B mmpfb
creates are interpolated at a low level to remove multiple master
instructions from individual characters. Therefore, they can be used by
programs that don't normally understand multiple master fonts, like
.BR ps2pk (1).
.PP
.B mmpfb
supports fonts with intermediate masters, like Adobe Jenson and Kepler. It
can also create AMCP (Adobe Multiple Master Conversion Program) files for
use by
.BR mmafm (1);
see
.B \-\-amcp\-info
below.
'
'
.SH EXAMPLE
'
.nh
% mmpfb --weight=400 --width=600 MyriadMM.pfb > MyriadMM_400_600_.pfb
.hy
'
.SH OPTIONS
Long options may be abbreviated to their unique prefixes.
'
.TP 5
.OY \-\-output file \-o file
'
Send output to
.I file
instead of standard output.
'
.TP
.BR \-\-pfb ", " \-b
'
Output a PFB font. This is the default.
'
.TP
.BR \-\-pfa ", " \-a
'
Output a PFA font.
'
.TP
.OP \-\-amcp\-info
'
Do not create a font; instead, output an AMCP file for use by
.BR mmafm (1).
A message is printed if the font doesn't have intermediate masters; in this
case, no AMCP file is necessary.
'
.TP
.OY \-\-weight N \-w N
'
Set the weight axis to 
.IR N .
'
.TP
.OY \-\-width N \-W N
'
Set the width axis to 
.IR N .
'
.TP
.OY \-\-optical\-size N \-O N
'
Set the optical size axis to 
.IR N .
'
.TP
.OL \-\-style N
'
Set the style axis to 
.IR N .
.TP
\fB\-\-1\fR=\fIN\fR (\fB\-\-2\fR=\fIN\fR, \fB\-\-3\fR=\fIN\fR, \fB\-\-4\fR=\fIN\fR)
'
Set the first (second, third, fourth) axis to
.IR N .
'
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mmafm (1)
'
.SH AUTHOR
.na
Eddie Kohler, eddietwo@lcs.mit.edu
.br
http://www.pdos.lcs.mit.edu/~eddietwo/
.PP
The latest version is available from:
.br
http://www.lcdf.org/~eddietwo/type/
.PP
Thanks to Melissa O'Neill <oneill@cs.sfu.ca> for suggestions and patient
debugging.
